---
layout: news
title:  "v5.13.0 Release Notes"
author: Stefan Kapferer
---

Today we released Context Mapper 5.13.0. This is a minor release containing the following changes:

 * A _Quickfix_ allows users to create Value Objects (VO) for ID attributes (in case you have attribute like `String customerId`, the Quickfix suggests to extract a VO). 
   * We will implement more Quickfixes in future releases (this was a first architectural spike).
 * Grammar change: Subdomains can refer the features (use cases or user stories) they support. Example:

   <div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c">/* Syntax example for Subdomain that supports specific user requirements: */</span>
   <span class="k">Domain</span> Insurance {
     <span class="k">domainVisionStatement</span> = <span class="s">&quot;Insurance domain vision statement ...&quot;</span>

     <span class="k">Subdomain</span> CustomerManagementDomain <span class="k">supports</span> CreateCustomers, CreateCustomerAddresses {
       <span class="k">type</span> = <span class="k">CORE_DOMAIN</span>
       <span class="k">domainVisionStatement</span> = <span class="s">&quot;Subdomain managing everything customer-related.&quot;</span>

       <span class="k">Entity</span> Customer {
         <span class="k">String</span> firstname
         <span class="k">String</span> familyname
       }
     }

   }

   <span class="k">UserStory</span> CreateCustomers {
     <span class="k">As</span> <span class="k">an</span> <span class="s">&quot;Insurance Employee&quot;</span>
       <span class="k">I</span> <span class="k">want</span> <span class="k">to</span> <span class="s">&quot;create&quot;</span> <span class="k">a</span> <span class="s">&quot;Customer&quot;</span> <span class="k">with</span> <span class="k">its</span> <span class="s">&quot;firstname&quot;</span>, <span class="s">&quot;lastname&quot;</span>
     <span class="k">so</span> <span class="k">that</span> <span class="s">&quot;I am able to manage the customers data and offer them insurance contracts.&quot;</span>
   }

   <span class="k">UserStory</span> CreateCustomerAddresses {
     <span class="k">As</span> <span class="k">an</span> <span class="s">&quot;Insurance Employee&quot;</span>
       <span class="k">I</span> <span class="k">want</span> <span class="k">to</span> <span class="s">&quot;create&quot;</span> <span class="k">an</span> <span class="s">&quot;Address&quot;</span> <span class="k">for</span> <span class="k">a</span> <span class="s">&quot;Customer&quot;</span>
       <span class="k">I</span> <span class="k">want</span> <span class="k">to</span> <span class="s">&quot;update&quot;</span> <span class="k">an</span> <span class="s">&quot;Address&quot;</span> <span class="k">for</span> <span class="k">a</span> <span class="s">&quot;Customer&quot;</span>
     <span class="k">so</span> <span class="k">that</span> <span class="s">&quot;I am able to manage the customers addresses.&quot;</span>
   }
   </pre></div>

   * The grammar documentation for Subdomains can be found [here](/docs/subdomain/).
   * This feature allowed us to improve the [OOAD transformations](/docs/rapid-ooad/), since we can now backtrack which features a Subdomain or Bounded Context implements.
 * The [OOAD transformation for Step 3 (derive Bounded Context from Subdomain)](/docs/rapid-ooad/) has been improved: 
   * Parameter and return types actually include the entities are not abstract types.
   * We generate Value Objects for IDs now.
 * The following [OOAD transformations](/docs/rapid-ooad/) can now be applied multiple times without producing an error or empty file:
   * Derive Frontend and Backend Systems
   * Split System Context Into Subsystems
 * The [graphical Context Map generator](/docs/context-map-generator/) user interface in [Eclipse](/docs/eclipse/) persists the configuration of the user (so that the dialog shows the same values at next generation).
 * The [generic text file generator (based on Freemarker)](/docs/generic-freemarker-generator/) suggests an ouput filename on the dialog in Eclipse (so that you have to change the file extension only).
 * Change in [MDSL generator](/docs/mdsl/): The generator produces contracts for all Bounded Contexts now, even if they are not an _upstream_ context in an upstream-downstream relationship.
   * Sometimes you just want to generate the contract without specifying the client Bounded Contexts (downstreams).
 * The following [Architectural Refactorings (ARs)](/docs/architectural-refactorings/) are now [supported in Visual Studio Code](/docs/ide/):
   * [Split Aggregate by Entities](/docs/ar-split-aggregate-by-entities/)
   * [Split Bounded Context by User Requirements (Use Cases and/or User Stories)](/docs/ar-split-bounded-context-by-use-cases/)
 * The [JDL template](https://github.com/ContextMapper/context-mapper-dsl/blob/master/org.contextmapper.dsl.ui/samples/freemarker/jhipster/JDL.ftl) to [generate Microservice applications with JHipster](/docs/jhipster-microservice-generation/) has been changed so that [API-first development](https://www.jhipster.tech/doing-api-first-development/) with [Open API](https://www.openapis.org/) specifications is enabled for all generated microservices.
 * Changes in [MDSL generator](/docs/mdsl/):
   * The "Aggregate" suffix is no longer added to the endpoint names.
   * The "IPA" keyword at the end of the contracts is no longer generated (is optional in [MDSL](https://microservice-api-patterns.github.io/MDSL-Specification/)).
   * The latest [MAP](https://microservice-api-patterns.org/) decorators supported by [MDSL](https://microservice-api-patterns.github.io/MDSL-Specification/) are respected by the generator.

As always, if you have any issues or other feedback, please [let us know](/getting-involved/).
