---
layout: news
title: "v6.4.0 Release Notes"
author: Stefan Kapferer
---

Today we released version 6.4.0 of Context Mapper 🥳 

This release contains some bug fixes, a new [Context Mapper CLI](https://github.com/ContextMapper/context-mapper-cli), improvements in the CML grammar, and it changes how the [OOAD transformation step 3](/docs/rapid-ooad/) handles object identifiers:

### CML Grammar Improvements
 * Object attributes on the tactic DDD level can be marked with the keyword `unique` to indicate that its values must be unique.
 * Use Case / User Story grammar:
   * In addition to `a` and `an`, `the` can now be used as an entity article.

### OOAD Step 3 Change
 * The OOAD step 3 transformation no longer generates Value Objects for the Entity identifiers, but simply generate a String attribute.
   * The String attribute can still be transformed into a Value Object with the corresponding quick fix.
   * This change improves the output of the MDSL generator (VO's not necessarily desired in rapid prototyping process).

### Bug Fixes

 * State transitions can have more than two states on the left side now.
 * The [markdown glossary template](/docs/generic-freemarker-generator/#example-templates) has been improved and some bugs were fixed.

### Context Mapper CLI

 * We implemented a first version of our new [Context Mapper CLI](https://github.com/ContextMapper/context-mapper-cli). With the CLI, you can currently generate:
   * Graphical Context Map
   * PlantUML diagrams
   * Generic textual output with the [Freemarker-based generator](/docs/generic-freemarker-generator/)
 
Thats already it for this new release of Context Mapper. As always, if you have any issues or other feedback, please [let us know](/getting-involved/).
